README.md, before:

# **Hangman**

inser Am I Responsive Image here

<br>

**Live deployed application can be found** [HERE](https://hangman-james-fitz.herokuapp.com/)  

<br>

## **Introduction**

Hangman is a simple word game that requires the player to guess the missing letters in an unknown word where the length of the word is known.
The strategy most commonly implemented while playing the game of hangman is to guess the most commomnly seen letters in the English language first and try to work out the answer from there.
Often players will begin by guessing the vowels, A,E,I,O and U, which gives a good starting point to discovering the word.

This project is a terminal based hangman game that is written completely using the Python programming language.
User input is accepted through number or letter entries into the command line of the terminal.

I decided to allow the user to choose a category of words to pick from (animals, brands or countries), and also a difficulty level to choose from (easy: 5 letter word, intermediate: 6 letter word, or hard: 7 letter word.)

These words are stored on an external google spreadsheet which makes it very simple to add or remove words from the game at any time.

Oncde the user begins a new game, they must input one letter at a time to guess the hidden word.
If the user guesses a letter correctly, the letter will be revealed.
If the user guesses incorrectly, a body part will be added to the hangman image and the player must guess again.
The game ends when either the player guesses all the letters correctly or the hangman is fully formed and the player loses.

When the game is over, the results will be displayed and the sub menu will be displayed to the user to return to the main menu or quit the game.

<br>

## **Table of Contents**
- [**Hangman**](#hangman)
  - [**Introduction**](#introduction)
  - [**Table of Contents**](#table-of-contents)
  - [**UX and Design**](#ux-and-design)
  - [**Features**](#features)
  - [**Testing**](#testing)
  - [**Technology Used**](#technology-used)
    - [Imports](#imports)
  - [**Deployment**](#deployment)
  - [**Credits**](#credits)



## **UX and Design**  

I wanted to ensure a very clean, easy to understand and visually appealing UX for this project.
I implemented a simple color gradient for the background of the page to make the terminal stand out to the user.
I also centred the terminal on the window as I feel it is more appealing for the player.

The application opens to a main menu with some ASCII art displaying the Hangman title.
The selections available to the user are colored. Play game, Rules and Credits are colored green and Quit is colored red.
This ensures that the user knows the 0 input will end the application.

Once the user enters 1 to play the game, they are given 3 option for category choice.
Animals, Brands or Countries.
These numbers are also colored to be more visually appealing to the user.

Once the user chooses a category they are given a choice of diificulty levels.
Easy, Intermediate or Hard.
These numbers are color coded green, yellow and red respectively as these are universally understood colors to indicated difficulty level.

Once the user has chosen the difficulty level the game screen will be displayed.
The category and difficulty choice will remain at the top of the page.
Below these, there are a number underscores denoting the amount of letters in the word.
Below the underscores, there will be an ASCII art image of a gallows, showing the player how close they are to losing.
Below the gallows is a player input request.

I have used red and green throughout this project to inform the user when an invalid/incorrect entry has been made and when a valid/correct entry has been made .

If a user inputs an invalid entry, an incorrect answer or loses the game, they will be given a message in red.

If the user guesses a letter correctly or wins the game, they will be given a message in green.

<details><summary>User Experience and Expectations</summary>  

- Simple game to play.
- Clear instructions and rules.
- Simple design and easy navigation.
- intuative design where results and outcomes are easily identified.
- Clear indication of input errors.
- Ability to see progress throughout the game, how many guesses left, how many letters guessed correctly.
- Variety and choice for a new experience every time.
- Ability to return to the main menu at the end of the game.

</details>

<details><summary>Flow Chart</summary>  

Insert flowchart here

</details>

<details><summary>Wireframe</summary>  

Insert wireframe here

</details>

<details><summary>Color Palette</summary>

As this is a terminal based project, there wasn't much scope for color modifications.
I added color to the terminal using colorama, and I added a simple red to cyan gradient background to the body of the page using css.

</details>

## **Features** 
<details><summary>Main Menu</summary>     

Add main menu image here

</details>

<details><summary>Rules Page</summary>     

Add rules image here

</details>

<details><summary>Credits Page</summary>     

Add Credits image here

</details>

<details><summary>Sub Menu</summary>  

Add sub menu image here

</details>

<details><summary>Category Choice</summary>

Add category choice image here

</details>

<details><summary>Difficulty Choice</summary>

Add difficulty choice image here

</details>

<details><summary>Future Features</summary>  

- Ability for player to input their own words or categories that will be pushed to the google sheet.  
- Ability for the player to guess the whole word at once rather than letter by letter.
- Implementation of timed game mode that will allocate a specified amount to time to make a guess depending on the difficulty level.

</details>

## **Testing**  

## **Technology Used**  

- Python programming language
- Github
- Gitpod
- Google sheets
- Google cloud
- Balsamiq
- Lucidchart 
  
### Imports

- random - Allow a random word to be chosen.
- os - Allow clear function to clear terminal.
- gspread - Allow program to link with google sheets.
- colorama - Allow terminal print messages to be colored.

## **Deployment**  

## **Credits**  

<details><summary>Media</summary>  

Add ascii links here
Flowchart made using lucidchart
Wireframes made using Balsamiq

</details>  

<details><summary>Code</summary>  

- Colorama tutorial
- Code institute tutors
- Fellow students in the CI Slack community
- Stack overflow
- Mentor Chris Quinn

</details>

Commit message:

Add headings to testing on readme file

README.md, after:

# **Hangman**

inser Am I Responsive Image here

<br>

**Live deployed application can be found** [HERE](https://hangman-james-fitz.herokuapp.com/)  

<br>

## **Introduction**

Hangman is a simple word game that requires the player to guess the missing letters in an unknown word where the length of the word is known.
The strategy most commonly implemented while playing the game of hangman is to guess the most commomnly seen letters in the English language first and try to work out the answer from there.
Often players will begin by guessing the vowels, A,E,I,O and U, which gives a good starting point to discovering the word.

This project is a terminal based hangman game that is written completely using the Python programming language.
User input is accepted through number or letter entries into the command line of the terminal.

I decided to allow the user to choose a category of words to pick from (animals, brands or countries), and also a difficulty level to choose from (easy: 5 letter word, intermediate: 6 letter word, or hard: 7 letter word.)

These words are stored on an external google spreadsheet which makes it very simple to add or remove words from the game at any time.

Oncde the user begins a new game, they must input one letter at a time to guess the hidden word.
If the user guesses a letter correctly, the letter will be revealed.
If the user guesses incorrectly, a body part will be added to the hangman image and the player must guess again.
The game ends when either the player guesses all the letters correctly or the hangman is fully formed and the player loses.

When the game is over, the results will be displayed and the sub menu will be displayed to the user to return to the main menu or quit the game.

<br>

## **Table of Contents**
- [**Hangman**](#hangman)
  - [**Introduction**](#introduction)
  - [**Table of Contents**](#table-of-contents)
  - [**UX and Design**](#ux-and-design)
  - [**Features**](#features)
  - [**Testing**](#testing)
    - [Python Linter Validation](#python-linter-validation)
    - [Input Testing](#input-testing)
    - [Browser Tests](#browser-tests)
    - [Bugs and Errors](#bugs-and-errors)
  - [**Technology Used**](#technology-used)
    - [Imports](#imports)
  - [**Deployment**](#deployment)
  - [**Credits**](#credits)



## **UX and Design**  

I wanted to ensure a very clean, easy to understand and visually appealing UX for this project.
I implemented a simple color gradient for the background of the page to make the terminal stand out to the user.
I also centred the terminal on the window as I feel it is more appealing for the player.

The application opens to a main menu with some ASCII art displaying the Hangman title.
The selections available to the user are colored. Play game, Rules and Credits are colored green and Quit is colored red.
This ensures that the user knows the 0 input will end the application.

Once the user enters 1 to play the game, they are given 3 option for category choice.
Animals, Brands or Countries.
These numbers are also colored to be more visually appealing to the user.

Once the user chooses a category they are given a choice of diificulty levels.
Easy, Intermediate or Hard.
These numbers are color coded green, yellow and red respectively as these are universally understood colors to indicated difficulty level.

Once the user has chosen the difficulty level the game screen will be displayed.
The category and difficulty choice will remain at the top of the page.
Below these, there are a number underscores denoting the amount of letters in the word.
Below the underscores, there will be an ASCII art image of a gallows, showing the player how close they are to losing.
Below the gallows is a player input request.

I have used red and green throughout this project to inform the user when an invalid/incorrect entry has been made and when a valid/correct entry has been made .

If a user inputs an invalid entry, an incorrect answer or loses the game, they will be given a message in red.

If the user guesses a letter correctly or wins the game, they will be given a message in green.

<details><summary>User Experience and Expectations</summary>  

- Simple game to play.
- Clear instructions and rules.
- Simple design and easy navigation.
- intuative design where results and outcomes are easily identified.
- Clear indication of input errors.
- Ability to see progress throughout the game, how many guesses left, how many letters guessed correctly.
- Variety and choice for a new experience every time.
- Ability to return to the main menu at the end of the game.

</details>

<details><summary>Flow Chart</summary>  

Insert flowchart here

</details>

<details><summary>Wireframe</summary>  

Insert wireframe here

</details>

<details><summary>Color Palette</summary>

As this is a terminal based project, there wasn't much scope for color modifications.
I added color to the terminal using colorama, and I added a simple red to cyan gradient background to the body of the page using css.

</details>

## **Features** 
<details><summary>Main Menu</summary>     

Add main menu image here

</details>

<details><summary>Rules Page</summary>     

Add rules image here

</details>

<details><summary>Credits Page</summary>     

Add Credits image here

</details>

<details><summary>Sub Menu</summary>  

Add sub menu image here

</details>

<details><summary>Category Choice</summary>

Add category choice image here

</details>

<details><summary>Difficulty Choice</summary>

Add difficulty choice image here

</details>

<details><summary>Future Features</summary>  

- Ability for player to input their own words or categories that will be pushed to the google sheet.  
- Ability for the player to guess the whole word at once rather than letter by letter.
- Implementation of timed game mode that will allocate a specified amount to time to make a guess depending on the difficulty level.

</details>

## **Testing**  

### Python Linter Validation

### Input Testing

Insert table with all input testing,area to test, input required, expected results, outcome, pass/fail.

### Browser Tests

Insert table with images of app running on multiple browsers.

### Bugs and Errors

No bugs in the program

## **Technology Used**  

- Python programming language
- Github
- Gitpod
- Google sheets
- Google cloud
- Balsamiq
- Lucidchart 
  
### Imports

- random - Allow a random word to be chosen.
- os - Allow clear function to clear terminal.
- gspread - Allow program to link with google sheets.
- colorama - Allow terminal print messages to be colored.

## **Deployment**  

## **Credits**  

<details><summary>Media</summary>  

Add ascii links here
Flowchart made using lucidchart
Wireframes made using Balsamiq

</details>  

<details><summary>Code</summary>  

- Colorama tutorial
- Code institute tutors
- Fellow students in the CI Slack community
- Stack overflow
- Mentor Chris Quinn

</details>
